Add MAINTAINERS.md (#1511)
spiffe/spire: MAINTAINERS.md

# SPIRE Maintainership Guidelines and Processes
This document captures the values, guidelines, and processes that the SPIRE project and its maintainers adhere to. All SPIRE maintainers, in their independent and individual capacity, agree to uphold and abide by the text contained herein.

This process can be changed, either permanently or as a one-time exception, through an 80% supermajority maintainer vote.

For a list of active SPIRE maintainers, please see the [CODEOWNERS](CODEOWNERS) file.

## General Governance

> The SPIRE project abides by the same [governance procedures][1] as the SPIFFE project, and ultimately reports to the SPIFFE TSC the same way that the SPIFFE project and associated maintainers do. While the SPIFFE TSC has the ultimate say, in practice they are only engaged upon serious maintainer disagreement. To say that this would be unprecedented is an understatement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SPIRE project abides by the same [governance procedures][1] as the SPIFFE project, and ultimately reports to the SPIFFE TSC the same way that the SPIFFE project and associated maintainers do. 
```

> TSC members do not track day-to-day activity in the SPIFFE/SPIRE projects, and this should be considered when deciding to raise issues to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TSC members do not track day-to-day activity in the SPIFFE/SPIRE projects, and this should be considered when deciding to raise issues to them. While the SPIFFE TSC has the ultimate say, in practice they are only engaged upon serious maintainer disagreement. To say that this would be unprecedented is an understatement.
```

### Maintainer Responsibility
SPIRE maintainers adhere to the [requirements and responsibilities][2] set forth in the SPIFFE governance document. They further pledge the following:
* To act in the best interest of the project at all times

> * To ensure that project development and direction is a function of real user need

Reviewer 2: who are the "real users"? what if we say something like `[...] is a function of community needs` to reflect that the aggregate benefit of users, rather than just a real user

> * To never take an important action in maintainer capacity with hesitation

Reviewer 2: this phrasing feels a bit awkward to me, maybe it'd be more clear to say `To never take any action which would result in an uncertain or potentially damaging outcome`. just something about `with hesitation` feels off to me but i can't put it into words exactly

Author: I'll reword a bit. I want to keep the spirit of the "with hesitation", which is to say, a maintainer shouldn't perform an action while being hesitant that it is the right thing to do.

The onboarding period is intended to ensure that the to-be-appointed maintainer is able/willing to take on the time requirements, familiar with SPIRE core logic and concepts, understands the overall system architecture and interactions that comprise it, and is able to work well with both the existing maintainers and the community.

## Change Review and Disagreements
The SPIRE project abides by the same [change review process][3] as the SPIFFE project, unless otherwise specified.

The exact definition/difference between "major" and "minor" changes is left to maintainer's discretion. Changes to particularly sensitive areas like the agent's cache manager, or the server's CA, are always good candidates for additional review. If in doubt, always ask for another review.

> If there is a disagreement amongst maintainers over a contribution or proposal, a vote may be called in which a simple majority wins. If any maintainer feels that the result of this vote critically endangers the project or its users, they have the right to raise the matter to the SPIFFE TSC. If this occurs, the contribution or proposal in question MUST be frozen until the SPIFFE TSC has made a decision. Do not take this route lightly (see [General Governance](general-governance)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there is a disagreement amongst maintainers over a contribution or proposal, a vote may be called in which a simple majority wins. If any maintainer feels that the result of this vote critically endangers the project or its users, they have the right to raise the matter to the SPIFFE TSC. If this occurs, the contribution or proposal in question MUST be frozen until the SPIFFE TSC has made a decision. Do not take this route lightly (see [General Governance](#general-governance)).
```

Author: thanks :)

> ### Experience Matters

Reviewer 2: maybe `User Experience Matters` ?

Reviewer: I see multiple points in this section. Perhaps something along the lines of "Preserve accessibility while maintaining security" or "Maintain security, preserve accessibility"?

Author: Maybe just "User Experience" or "Security and Usability"?

> SPIRE solves a complicated problem, and is developed and maintained by people with deep expertise. They (we) are the 1-percenters. SPIRE maintainers must ensure that new features, log and error messages, documentation and naming choices, are all easily accessible by those who may not be very familiar with SPIFFE or authentication systems in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SPIRE solves a complicated problem, and is developed and maintained by people with deep expertise. SPIRE maintainers must ensure that new features, log and error messages, documentation and naming choices, are all easily accessible by those who may not be very familiar with SPIFFE or authentication systems in general.
```

Decisions should favor "secure by default" and "it just works" anywhere possible, and in that order. The number of configurables should be minimized as much as possible, especially in cases where it's believed that many users would need to invoke it, or when their values (and extremes) could significantly affect SPIRE performance, reliability, or security.

A good measure is the "beginner" measure. A beginner should be able to easily and quickly understand the configurable/feature, and its potential uses/impacts. They should also be able to easily and quickly troubleshoot a problem when something important goes wrong - and not to mention, be clearly informed of such a condition!

### Review Guidelines
The SPIFFE [governance document][1], its section on [review process][3], and the SPIRE [contribution guidelines][4], must all be applied for any SPIRE review.

While reviewing, SPIRE maintainers should ask questions similar to the following:
* Do I clearly understand the use case that this change is addressing?

> * Is the proposed change disruptive to other use cases that are currently supported?

Author: :+1:

Releases for the previous major version are made directly from its version branch. Ensure that the `CHANGELOG` is updated in both the master and the version branch to reflect the new release.

### Releasing
The SPIRE release machinery is tag-driven. When the maintainers are ready to release, a tag is pushed referencing the release commit. While the CI/CD pipeline takes care of the rest, it is important to keep an eye on its progress. If an error is encountered during this process, the release is aborted.

The first two releases that a new maintainer performs must be performed under the supervision of maintainer that has already satisfied this requirement.

SPIRE releases are authorized by its maintainers. When doing so, they should carefully consider the proposed release commit. Is there confidence that the changes included do not represent a compatibility concern? Have the affected codepaths been sufficiently exercised, be it by automated test suite or manual testing? Is the maintainer free of general hesitation in releasing this commit, particularly with regards to safety and security? If the answer to any of these questions is "no", then do not release.

> A simple majority vote is required to authorize a SPIRE release at a specific commit hash. If any maintainer feels that the result of this vote critically endangers the project or its users, they have the right to raise the matter to the SPIFFE TSC. If this occurs, the release in question MUST be frozen until the SPIFFE TSC has made a decision. Do not take this route lightly (see [General Governance](general-governance)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A simple majority vote is required to authorize a SPIRE release at a specific commit hash. If any maintainer feels that the result of this vote critically endangers the project or its users, they have the right to raise the matter to the SPIFFE TSC. If this occurs, the release in question MUST be frozen until the SPIFFE TSC has made a decision. Do not take this route lightly (see [General Governance](#general-governance)).
```

Author: thanks :)

> A simple majority vote is required to authorize a SPIRE release at a specific commit hash. If any maintainer feels that the result of this vote critically endangers the project or its users, they have the right to raise the matter to the SPIFFE TSC. If this occurs, the release in question MUST be frozen until the SPIFFE TSC has made a decision. To say that this would be unprecedented is an understatement. Do not take this route lightly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A simple majority vote is required to authorize a SPIRE release at a specific commit hash. If any maintainer feels that the result of this vote critically endangers the project or its users, they have the right to raise the matter to the SPIFFE TSC. If this occurs, the release in question MUST be frozen until the SPIFFE TSC has made a decision. As stated numerous times in these guidelines, no precedent exists of engaging the SPIFFE TSC. Do not use this recourse without careful consideration.
```

Author: Can you be more specific about what part of the original language you wanted changed? There are other spots that share the same language, and being consistent is important.

Reviewer: The recurring usage of the same sentence gives the impression of boilerplate text.  The sentence in itself is a contraption. Maybe just point to "see [GOVERNANCE.md]".

Author: Resolved offline. Terse language was the goal. I've updated the two spots that have this pattern to point to the governance section.

#### Checklist
This section summarizes the steps necessary to execute a SPIRE release. Unless explicitly stated, the below steps must be executed in order.

> The following steps must be completed at least one week prior to release:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps must be completed one week prior to release:
```

Author: What's the motivation for this change?

Reviewer: Brevity. One week firmly and briefly captures the timeline.

Author: Resolved offline. More succinct language without changing the lower bound, which is still one week.

* Ensure all changes intended to be included in the release are fully merged
* Identify a specific commit as the release candidate
* Raise an issue "Release SPIRE X.Y.Z", and include both the release candidate commit hash and the proposed changelog updates

**If this is a major release**, the following steps must be completed before releasing:

> * Review and exercise all examples in spiffe.io and spire-examples repo against the release candidate hash

Reviewer 4: may we add spire-tutorial to this list?

Author: This is covered under the spiffe.io umbrella as updating it would include updating spire-tutorials.

* Push the tags to SPIRE, and watch the build to completion
  * If the build fails, or anything unusual is encountered, abort the release
    * Ensure that the GitHub release, container images, and release artifacts are deleted/rolled back if necessary
* Visit the releases page on GitHub, copy the release notes, click edit and paste them back in. This works around a GitHub rendering bug that you will notice before completing this task
* Open and merge a PR to bump the SPIRE version to the next projected version and apply the CHANGELOG updates
  * For example, after releasing 0.10.0, update the version to 0.10.1, since it is more likely to be released before 0.11.0.
  * Ideally, this is the first commit merged following the release

**IF this is a major release**, the following steps must be completed no later than one week after the release:
* PRs to update spiffe.io and spire-examples repo to the latest major version must be merged
  * Ensure that the PRs have been updated to use the version tag instead of the commit sha
* Broadcast news of release to the community via available means: SPIFFE Slack, Twitter, etc.

## Community Interaction and Presence

> Maintainers represent the front line of SPIFFE and SPIRE community engagement. They are the ones interacting with end users in issues, and with contributors on their PRs. The buck stops with a maintainer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maintainers represent the front line of SPIFFE and SPIRE community engagement. They are the ones interacting with end users in issues, and with contributors on their PRs. 
```

SPIRE maintainers must make themselves available to the community. It is critical that maintainers engage in this capacity - for understanding user needs and pains, for ensuring success in project adoption and deployment, and to close feedback loops on recently-introduced changes or features... to name a few.

> PR and Issue management/response is table stakes for all SPIRE maintainers. In addition, maintainers should, whenever possible:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PR and Issue management/response is a role responsability for all SPIRE maintainers. In addition, maintainers should, whenever possible:
```

* Be generally available on the SPIFFE Slack, and engage in questions/conversations raised in the #help and #spire channels
* Attend SPIFFE/SPIRE community events (physically or virtually)
* Present SPIFFE/SPIRE at meetups and industry conferences

### Communication Values
SPIRE maintainers always engage in a respectful and constructive manner, and always follow the [SPIFFE Code of Conduct][6].

> It is very important for maintainers to understand that contributions are generally acts of kindness, whether it be creating an issue or sending a pull request. It takes time to do these things. In the vast majority of cases, the motivating factor for taking the time to do this is either to improve the quality of the project for others, or to enable the project to (more easily?) solve a problem that it could not previously. Both of these factors are positive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is very important for maintainers to understand that contributions are generally acts of generosity, whether it be creating an issue or sending a pull request. It takes time to do these things. In the vast majority of cases, the motivating factor for taking the time to do this is either to improve the quality of the project for others, or to enable the project to (more easily?) solve a problem that it could not previously. Both of these factors are positive.
```

> Considering the above, optimism and friendliness should be liberally applied to all PR/Issue responses. They likely mean their best, and are likely trying their best. It is important to work with them - understand their problem or goal, and constructively work towards a mutually beneficial solution. Hanlon's Razor should be taken into consideration anywhere it may be applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Considering the above, optimism and friendliness should be liberally applied to all PR/Issue responses. End users and contributors likely mean their best, and are likely trying their best. It is important to work with them - understand their problem or goal, and constructively work towards a mutually beneficial solution. 
```
